+++
title = "Profiling the Classes of the RNA Editing in Virus-derived small RNAs in White Mold Sclerotinia sclerotiorum"
date = 2019-07-24
location = "Minneapolis, USA"
event = "American Society for Virology"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["**Achal Neupane**", "Chenchen Feng", "Pauline K. Mochama", "Huma Saleem", "Shin-Yi Lee Marzano"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = ""
abstract_short = ""
# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#projects = [" "]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_source = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++


**Abstract**


Profiling the classes of the RNA silencing, also known as RNA interference, is
an essential mechanism in plants, animals and fungi
that functions in gene regulation and defense against
foreign nucleic acids. In fungi, RNA silencing has
been shown to function primarily in defense against
invasive nucleic acids. RNA-silencing- deficient fungi
show increased susceptibility to virus infection. Little
is known about the classes of RNA editing in virus-
derived small RNA which will teach us the nature
of self-nonself recognition and ways to modulate
RNA modification to control fungal infections.
The present study dissects the RNA silencing pathway
in *S*. *sclerotiorum* by disrupting its key silencing
genes using the split-marker recombination method
in order to probe the contributions of these genes,
specifically argonautes, to fungal virulence and viral
defense mechanisms. Following gene disruption,
mutants were studied for changes in phenotype,
pathogenicity, viral susceptibility, and small RNA
processing compared to the wild-type strain, DK3.
Among the argonaute mutants, the agl-2 mutant
had significantly slower growth and virulence prior
to and following virus infection. Additional analyses
indicated that the virus-infected wild-type strain
accumulated virus-derived small RNAS (vsiRNAs)
with distinct patterns of internal and terminal
nucleotide mismatches. Dicer 1 mutant produced
less vsiRNA compared to dicer 2 mutant and the wild
type strain, suggesting the two dicers are not in the
state of complete redundancy. This finding expands
our overall understanding of S. sclerotiorum and has
important implications for any current or future uses
of dsRNA and mycoviruses as disease control agents.
