+++
title = "Roles of Dicers and Argonautes on Sclerotinia sclerotiorum Antiviral Small RNA Processing"
date = 2019-01-12
location = "San Diego, USA"
event = "Plant and Animal Genome Conference, XXVII"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["**Achal Neupane**", "Pauline K. Mochama", "Huma Saleem", "Shin-Yi Lee Marzano"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = ""
abstract_short = ""
# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#projects = [" "]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_source = "https://pag.confex.com/pag/xxvii/meetingapp.cgi/Paper/36968"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++


**Abstract**


ProfilingRNA silencing, also known as RNA interference, is an essential mechanism in plants, animals and fungi that functions in gene regulation and defense against foreign nucleic acids. In fungi, RNA silencing has been shown to function primarily in defense against invasive nucleic acids. RNA-silencing- deficient fungi show increased susceptibility to virus infection. Plant pathogenic fungi also utilize RNA silencing to silence plant host immunity genes through the delivery of fungal small RNAs into plants. This cross-kingdom RNA silencing facilitates fungal infection of plants. Overall, these findings demonstrate the significant contributions of fungal RNA silencing pathways to fungal virulence and viral defense. This study dissects the RNA silencing pathway in S. sclerotiorum by disrupting its key silencing genes using the split-marker recombination method in order to probe the contributions of these genes, specifically argonautes, to fungal virulence and viral defense mechanisms. Following gene disruption, mutants were studied for changes in phenotype, pathogenicity, viral susceptibility, and small RNA processing compared to the wild-type strain, DK3. Among the argonaute mutants, the ∆agl-2 mutant had significantly slower growth and virulence prior to and following virus infection. Additional studies indicated that the virus-infected wild-type strain accumulated virus-derived smallRNAs(vsiRNAs) with distinct patterns of internal and terminal nucleotide mismatches. Additionally, dicer 1 mutant produced less vsiRNA compared to dicer 2 mutant and the wild type strain. These results together support that S. sclerotiorum has robust RNAsilencing mechanisms that function primarily in antiviral defense but also in endogenous gene regulation processes. This finding expands our overall understanding of S. sclerotiorum and has important implications for any current or future uses of mycoviruses as biological control agents, an emerging area of interest in fungal control research.
